In this video we are going to do an introduction to spring rust stocks.
Now you might be wondering what it is.
It is a tool for generating API documentation so obviously as we develop micro servers having properly
documented n points is very important.
This tool was developed by Andy Wilkinson of pivotal he is a pivotal employee and is the primary committee
on Rostock.
So he's added in a lot of great functionality to it.
So once spring rest stocks does in a nutshell is it.
It's going to hook into your controller test and these tests are going to be used to generate documentation
snippets.
It's kind of a cool approach because you're doing your test driven development at the same time you're
going to allow those test to drive your documentation generation.
So pretty clever idea.
The test will generate snippets there call their small files of documentation and then these snippets
are assembled into final documentation for you a tool called ASCII Doctor.
Now the test clients that are supported are going to be Spring MVC test the web test client.
That's the new reactive stuff in web flux and then also rest assured.
So that is also a testing framework that is going to be supported by spring Russell docs now the test
frameworks that are going to be supported primarily going to be Jane bass so Jane at five Jane for a
spark actually in a makeover spot is very close to Jane.
And then test energy there's going to be some additional configuration required for that.
I'm not going to be covering test energy.
You'll need to refer to documentation but if you're a test and a user that is an option that you can
have.
Now the snippets that are going to be generated it does some interesting things.
These are the default snippets that are going to be generated.
Curl also command line curl command is get generated the AC DP request and response so there's going
to be documentation of those H2 ETP i.e. that's also a command line tool to invoke the API and then
request body response body.
So these are all documentation snippets that are going to be generated by default out of the box using
spring rest.
Now to help you envision what's going to happen you're testing it and generate a variety of snippets.
So these are just small files with snippets of documentation in it.
So you'll get a collection of these and ask doctor is going to work in conjunction with a template to
assemble your final documentation.
So ask a doctor kind of assembles everything together so to speak in kind of a interesting approach
might be a little confusing but as we get through the course and show you this setup we'll go through
step by step and you'll you'll see how this all fits together.
Now there's a few options you can use markdown rather than ask a doctor.
I'm not going to be covering that but that as an option maven and grail may be used for the build process.
I'll be focusing on maven and then you can also optionally package the documentation to be served up
a static content be a spring boot so you can do this right in your build process and then also ask doctors
very very versatile so you have a ton of ways to customize your final output of your documentation so
ask your doctor is a huge tool.
I'm not going to explore all the nooks and crannies but it is a very flexible tool for working with
documentation.
Now there's also a variety of third party extensions available for spring rest Doc and these are the
tools that are available right now.
There might be more in the future but right now you have risk docs where Mark that's going to allow
you to generate wire marks.
So that's actually kind of cool to have rest stocks extension jersey.
So Jersey has its own test framework so that allow you to use Spring rescue docs with the jersey framework
and then a spring auto rest docs rust dogs can do an all the documentation and your tests can get be
a little verbose.
This is going to use reflection to help automatically document the requests and response parameters.
And then there's also rest docs API spec so I am a big fan of open API 3.
This is going to allow you to generate open API specifications from Rostock so kind of an interesting
approach there as well.
So if you need to generate that this is a tool that you can use for that coming up in the course what
we're going to be doing in this section is I have a brand new example project we will go in and do a
code review of that.
So it's just going to be a simple rest style project then we will look at configuring maven support
for rest stocks.
I mean a focus on doing J.
Unit five tests.
So Jane AFIS went out for some time now and I'll be approaching the June for is pretty similar.
There's just a couple minor nuances in the configuration that's well documented.
So if you need Jane for the spring documentation is very good on that.
And then we'll go through and modify the test of the project to have we'll have existing control or
tests and we'll modify those controller tests to start doing documentation so that's what you can expect
coming up in the section.